getting_started/quickstart_build.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart: Build an MCP server"
description: "Build and run a Streamable HTTP MCP server in TypeScript with two lines of code"
---

The easiest way to build an MCP server is to use the TypeScript MCP SDK with the Smithery CLI. For other languages like Python, you can follow our [Python custom container guide](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) to build with FastMCP and Docker.

### Choose your hosting model

- Hosted on Smithery (recommended): Build and deploy on Smithery with CI/CD and a great developer experience.
- Self-hosted: Already running your MCP elsewhere? Publish it by URL. See [External MCPs](/build/external).

### Prerequisites

- Node.js >18 and npm
- A [Smithery API key](https://smithery.ai) for development features

### 1. Initialize Project

```bash
npm create smithery
```

### 2. Edit Your Server

In `src/index.ts`, you'll see a default server that says hello to a given name. Edit it to add your own tools. For more information on the MCP spec, check out the [MCP TypeScript SDK](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk?tab=readme-ov-file#quick-start).

Or, you can invoke this server by prompting something like "Say hello to Henry".

```typescript
import { McpServer } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";
import { z } from "zod";

// Optional: Define configuration schema to require configuration at connection time
// export const configSchema = z.object({
//   debug: z.boolean().default(false).describe("Enable debug logging")
// });

export default function ({ config }: { config: z.infer<typeof configSchema> }) {
  // Create a new MCP server per MCP spec
  const server = new McpServer({
    name: "My MCP Server",
    version: "1.0.0",
  });

  // Add a tool
  server.tool(
    "hello",
    "Say hello to someone",
    {
      name: z.string().describe("Name to greet"),
    },
    async ({ name }) => {
      return {
        content: [{ type: "text", text: `Hello, ${name}!` }],
      };
    }
  );

  return server.server;
}
```

<Expandable title="Configuration Schema">
### Configuration Schema

MCP servers can accept [session configurations](/build/session-config) to customize their behavior for each client session. This allows users to provide API keys, adjust settings, or modify how your server operates when they connect.

Export a `configSchema` using Zod to define what configuration your server accepts:

```typescript
export const configSchema = z.object({
  myApiKey: z.string().describe("Required API key"),
  options: z
    .object({
      timeout: z.number().default(5000),
      retries: z.number().default(3),
    })
    .optional(),
});
```

Benefits:

- **Type safety**: Use `z.infer<typeof configSchema>` for TypeScript types
- **Runtime validation**: Automatically validate configuration at connection time
- **Auto-generated UI**: Smithery creates configuration forms based on your schema
- **Documentation**: Schema descriptions become help text for users

</Expandable>

### 3. Start Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will port-forward your local server to the Smithery Playground via ngrok. You can also reference the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) for more controls.

### 4. Deploy

![Deployment](../images/deploy.png)

Deployment is a one-click process. Just [make a GitHub repo](https://github.com/new) and [click "Deploy" on the Smithery home page](https://smithery.ai/new).

## Advanced: Build Configuration

For advanced use cases, you can customize the build process using a `smithery.config.js` file. This is useful for:

- Marking packages as external (to avoid bundling issues)
- Configuring minification, targets, and other build options
- Adding custom esbuild plugins

### Configuration File

Create `smithery.config.js` in your project root:

```javascript
export default {
  esbuild: {
    // Mark problematic packages as external
    external: ["playwright-core", "puppeteer-core"],

    // Enable minification for production
    minify: true,

    // Set Node.js target version
    target: "node18",
  },
};
```

### Common Use Cases

**External Dependencies**: If you encounter bundling issues with packages like Playwright or native modules:

```javascript
export default {
  esbuild: {
    external: ["playwright-core", "sharp", "@grpc/grpc-js"],
  },
};
```

Configuration applies to both `build` and `dev` commands.

Commit message:

add npm create smithery image

getting_started/quickstart_build.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart: Build your MCP server"
description: "Build and deploy your first Streamable HTTP MCP server in 10 minutes"
---

![npm create smithery](../images/npm-create-smithery.png)

In this quickstart, we'll build a simple MCP server that says hello to users. You'll learn how to create tools, handle requests, and deploy your server with automatic CI/CD. We'll use the TypeScript MCP SDK with the Smithery CLI for the fastest development experience. For other languages like Python, check out our [Python custom container guide](/cookbooks/python_custom_container).

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >18 (includes npm)
- A [Smithery API key](https://smithery.ai) for development features

### 1. Initialize Project

```bash
npm create smithery
```

### 2. Edit Your Server

In `src/index.ts`, you'll see a default server that says hello to a given name. Edit it to add your own tools. For more information on the MCP spec, check out the [MCP TypeScript SDK](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk?tab=readme-ov-file#quick-start).

```typescript
import { McpServer } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";
import { z } from "zod";

// Optional: Define configuration schema to require configuration at connection time
// export const configSchema = z.object({
//   debug: z.boolean().default(false).describe("Enable debug logging")
// });

export default function ({ config }: { config: z.infer<typeof configSchema> }) {
  // Create a new MCP server per MCP spec
  const server = new McpServer({
    name: "My MCP Server",
    version: "1.0.0",
  });

  // Add a tool
  server.tool(
    "hello",
    "Say hello to someone",
    {
      name: z.string().describe("Name to greet"),
    },
    async ({ name }) => {
      return {
        content: [{ type: "text", text: `Hello, ${name}!` }],
      };
    }
  );

  return server.server;
}
```

<Expandable title="Configuration Schema">
### Configuration Schema

MCP servers can accept [session configurations](/build/session-config) to customize their behavior for each client session. This allows users to provide API keys, adjust settings, or modify how your server operates when they connect.

Export a `configSchema` using Zod to define what configuration your server accepts:

```typescript
export const configSchema = z.object({
  myApiKey: z.string().describe("Required API key"),
  options: z
    .object({
      timeout: z.number().default(5000),
      retries: z.number().default(3),
    })
    .optional(),
});
```

Benefits:

- **Type safety**: Use `z.infer<typeof configSchema>` for TypeScript types
- **Runtime validation**: Automatically validate configuration at connection time
- **Auto-generated UI**: Smithery creates configuration forms based on your schema
- **Documentation**: Schema descriptions become help text for users

</Expandable>

### 3. Start Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will port-forward your local server to the Smithery Playground via ngrok. You can now test your server by prompting something like "Say hello to Henry". You can also reference the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) for more controls.

### 4. Deploy

![Deployment](../images/deploy.png)

Deployment is a one-click process. Just [make a GitHub repo](https://github.com/new) and [click "Deploy" on the Smithery home page](https://smithery.ai/new).

## Advanced: Build Configuration

For advanced use cases, you can customize the build process using a `smithery.config.js` file. This is useful for:

- Marking packages as external (to avoid bundling issues)
- Configuring minification, targets, and other build options
- Adding custom esbuild plugins

### Configuration File

Create `smithery.config.js` in your project root:

```javascript
export default {
  esbuild: {
    // Mark problematic packages as external
    external: ["playwright-core", "puppeteer-core"],

    // Enable minification for production
    minify: true,

    // Set Node.js target version
    target: "node18",
  },
};
```

### Common Use Cases

**External Dependencies**: If you encounter bundling issues with packages like Playwright or native modules:

```javascript
export default {
  esbuild: {
    external: ["playwright-core", "sharp", "@grpc/grpc-js"],
  },
};
```

Configuration applies to both `build` and `dev` commands.
