getting_started/quickstart_build_typescript.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart: TypeScript"
icon: "braces"
description: "Deploy your first Typescript Streamable HTTP MCP server in minutes"
---

Get started with one command:

```bash
npm create smithery
```

### Overview

In this quickstart, we'll build a simple MCP server that says _hello_ to users. We'll use the official [TypeScript MCP SDK](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk) with the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli). By the end, you'll have a live, deployed server with built-in authentication that you can connect to from any MCP client. 

For Python, check out our [Python quickstart guide](/getting_started/quickstart_build_python).

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >18 (includes npm)
- A [Smithery API key](https://smithery.ai) for development features

### 1. Initialize the Server

```bash
npm create smithery
```

This retrieves and executes the [Create Smithery](https://github.com/smithery-ai/create-smithery) initializer package, which sets up a TypeScript MCP server scaffold with example code and all necessary dependencies.

### 2. Edit the Server

In `src/index.ts`, you'll see a default server that says hello to a given name. Edit it to add your own tools, resources, and prompts.

Here's the basic structure:

```typescript
import { McpServer } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";
import { z } from "zod";

// Optional: Configuration schema for session
// export const configSchema = z.object({
//   debug: z.boolean().default(false).describe("Enable debug logging"),
// });

export default function createServer({ config }) {
  const server = new McpServer({
    name: "Say Hello",
    version: "1.0.0",
  });

  // Add a tool
  server.registerTool("hello", { // [!code highlight]
    title: "Hello Tool", // [!code highlight]
    description: "Say hello to someone", // [!code highlight]
    inputSchema: { name: z.string().describe("Name to greet") }, // [!code highlight]
  }, async ({ name }) => ({ // [!code highlight]
    content: [{ type: "text", text: `Hello, ${name}!` }], // [!code highlight]
  })); // [!code highlight]

  // The scaffold also includes example resources and prompts
  // server.registerResource(...) 
  // server.registerPrompt(...)

  return server.server;
}
```

<Tip>
**Adding config schema (optional)**

Smithery allows users to customize server behavior for each session by providing API keys, adjusting settings, or modifying operational parameters. Optionally export a `configSchema` using Zod to define what configuration your server accepts:

```typescript
export const configSchema = z.object({
  apiKey: z.string().describe("Weather API key"),
  temperatureUnit: z.enum(["celsius", "fahrenheit"]).default("celsius").describe("Temperature unit preference"),
});
```
</Tip>

### 3. Testing the Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will port-forward your local server to the Smithery Playground via ngrok. You can now test your server by prompting something like "Say hello to Henry". You can also reference the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) for more controls.

### 4. Deploy the Server

Deployment is a one-click process. Just [make a GitHub repo](https://github.com/new), push your local changes, and then [click "Deploy" on the Smithery home page](https://smithery.ai/new).

Commit message:

Enhance TypeScript documentation with updated dependency versions and installation tips for Smithery CLI

getting_started/quickstart_build_typescript.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart: TypeScript"
icon: "braces"
description: "Deploy your first Typescript Streamable HTTP MCP server in minutes"
---

Get started with one command:

```bash
npm create smithery
```

### Overview

In this quickstart, we'll build a simple MCP server that says _hello_ to users. We'll use the official [TypeScript MCP SDK](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/typescript-sdk) with the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli). By the end, you'll have a live, deployed server with built-in authentication that you can connect to from any MCP client. 

For Python, check out our [Python quickstart guide](/getting_started/quickstart_build_python).

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >18 (includes npm)
- A [Smithery API key](https://smithery.ai) for development features

### 1. Initialize the Server

```bash
npm create smithery
```

This retrieves and executes the [Create Smithery](https://github.com/smithery-ai/create-smithery) initializer package, which sets up a TypeScript MCP server scaffold with example code and all necessary dependencies.

<Note>
The scaffold installs everything you need, including:

- `@smithery/cli` as a dev dependency (`npm run dev`/`npm run build` use the local CLI)
- `@modelcontextprotocol/sdk` and `@smithery/sdk` as runtime dependencies

If you add the CLI to an existing project manually, run:

```bash
npm i -D @smithery/cli
npm i @modelcontextprotocol/sdk @smithery/sdk
```
</Note>

### 2. Edit the Server

In `src/index.ts`, you'll see a default server that says hello to a given name. Edit it to add your own tools, resources, and prompts.

Here's the basic structure:

```typescript
import { McpServer } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/mcp.js";
import { z } from "zod";

// Optional: Configuration schema for session
// export const configSchema = z.object({
//   debug: z.boolean().default(false).describe("Enable debug logging"),
// });

export default function createServer({ config }) {
  const server = new McpServer({
    name: "Say Hello",
    version: "1.0.0",
  });

  // Add a tool
  server.registerTool("hello", { // [!code highlight]
    title: "Hello Tool", // [!code highlight]
    description: "Say hello to someone", // [!code highlight]
    inputSchema: { name: z.string().describe("Name to greet") }, // [!code highlight]
  }, async ({ name }) => ({ // [!code highlight]
    content: [{ type: "text", text: `Hello, ${name}!` }], // [!code highlight]
  })); // [!code highlight]

  // The scaffold also includes example resources and prompts
  // server.registerResource(...) 
  // server.registerPrompt(...)

  return server.server;
}
```

<Tip>
**Adding config schema (optional)**

Smithery allows users to customize server behavior for each session by providing API keys, adjusting settings, or modifying operational parameters. Optionally export a `configSchema` using Zod to define what configuration your server accepts:

```typescript
export const configSchema = z.object({
  apiKey: z.string().describe("Weather API key"),
  temperatureUnit: z.enum(["celsius", "fahrenheit"]).default("celsius").describe("Temperature unit preference"),
});
```
</Tip>

### 3. Testing the Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will port-forward your local server to the Smithery Playground via ngrok. You can now test your server by prompting something like "Say hello to Henry". You can also reference the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli) for more controls.

### 4. Deploy the Server

Deployment is a one-click process. Just [make a GitHub repo](https://github.com/new), push your local changes, and then [click "Deploy" on the Smithery home page](https://smithery.ai/new).
