build/deployments.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Deployments'
description: 'Learn how to deploy your MCP server on Smithery.'
---

Smithery Deployments allow you to host your MCP server on Smithery served over [Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http) connection.

## Which deployment method should I use?

- **[TypeScript Deploy](#typescript-deploy)**: Choose this if you're building with TypeScript using the Smithery CLI
- **[Custom Deploy](#custom-deploy)**: Choose this if you're using another language or need full control over your Docker container

## TypeScript Deploy

The fastest way to deploy TypeScript MCP servers on Smithery. This method automatically builds and deploys your server using our TypeScript runtime.

### Prerequisites

- TypeScript MCP server
- Built with the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli)
- Repository with `package.json` and proper entry points

### Setup

Create a `smithery.yaml` file in your repository root:

```yaml
runtime: "typescript"
```

See the [Getting Started guide](/build/getting-started) for complete TypeScript server development instructions.

### Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your server

## Custom Deploy

For advanced users deploying Docker containers in any programming language.

### Prerequisites

- Docker container that implements [Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http)
- Dockerfile in your repository
- Server that listens on `PORT` environment variable

### Technical Requirements

#### HTTP Endpoint
- **Endpoint**: `/mcp` must be available
- **Methods**: Handle `GET`, `POST`, and `DELETE` requests
- **Port**: Listen on `PORT` environmental variable

#### Configuration Handling
Smithery passes [configuration](/build/session-config) as query parameters using dot-notation:

```
GET/POST /mcp?server.host=localhost&server.port=8080&apiKey=secret123
```

Parse these into a configuration object supporting nested properties.

### Setup

Create a `smithery.yaml` file:

```yaml
runtime: "container"
build:
  dockerfile: "Dockerfile"           # Path to your Dockerfile
  dockerBuildPath: "."               # Docker build context
startCommand:
  type: "http"
  configSchema:                      # JSON Schema for configuration
    type: "object"
    properties:
      apiKey:
        type: "string"
        description: "Your API key"
    required: ["apiKey"]
  exampleConfig:
    apiKey: "sk-example123"
```

### Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml` and `Dockerfile`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your container

## Best Practices

### Tool Discovery
To ensure your tools appear in Smithery's registry, implement "lazy loading":
- List tools without requiring authentication
- Only validate API keys when tools are actually invoked
- This allows users to discover your server's capabilities before configuring it

Commit message:

Add docs for external MCPs

build/deployments.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Deployments'
description: 'Learn how to deploy your MCP server on Smithery.'
---

Smithery Deployments allow you to host your MCP server on Smithery served over [Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http) connection.

If you're self-hosting and only need listing and distribution on Smithery, you can publish an external MCP by URL. See [External MCPs](/build/external).

## Which deployment method should I use?

- **[TypeScript Deploy](#typescript-deploy)**: Choose this if you're building with TypeScript using the Smithery CLI
- **[Custom Deploy](#custom-deploy)**: Choose this if you're using another language or need full control over your Docker container

## TypeScript Deploy

The fastest way to deploy TypeScript MCP servers on Smithery. This method automatically builds and deploys your server using our TypeScript runtime.

### Prerequisites

- TypeScript MCP server
- Built with the [Smithery CLI](https://github.com/smithery-ai/cli)
- Repository with `package.json` and proper entry points

### Setup

Create a `smithery.yaml` file in your repository root:

```yaml
runtime: "typescript"
```

See the [Getting Started guide](/build/getting-started) for complete TypeScript server development instructions.

### Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your server

## Custom Deploy

For advanced users deploying Docker containers in any programming language.

### Prerequisites

- Docker container that implements [Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http)
- Dockerfile in your repository
- Server that listens on `PORT` environment variable

### Technical Requirements

#### HTTP Endpoint
- **Endpoint**: `/mcp` must be available
- **Methods**: Handle `GET`, `POST`, and `DELETE` requests
- **Port**: Listen on `PORT` environmental variable

#### Configuration Handling
Smithery passes [configuration](/build/session-config) as query parameters using dot-notation:

```
GET/POST /mcp?server.host=localhost&server.port=8080&apiKey=secret123
```

Parse these into a configuration object supporting nested properties.

### Setup

Create a `smithery.yaml` file:

```yaml
runtime: "container"
build:
  dockerfile: "Dockerfile"           # Path to your Dockerfile
  dockerBuildPath: "."               # Docker build context
startCommand:
  type: "http"
  configSchema:                      # JSON Schema for configuration
    type: "object"
    properties:
      apiKey:
        type: "string"
        description: "Your API key"
    required: ["apiKey"]
  exampleConfig:
    apiKey: "sk-example123"
```

### Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml` and `Dockerfile`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your container

## Best Practices

### Tool Discovery
To ensure your tools appear in Smithery's registry, implement "lazy loading":
- List tools without requiring authentication
- Only validate API keys when tools are actually invoked
- This allows users to discover your server's capabilities before configuring it
