build/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Build MCPs"
description: "Learn how to build your Model Context Protocol (MCP) server on Smithery."
---

Smithery supports developers building MCPs by providing [CI/CD deployments and hosting](/build/deployments).

**Benefits of hosting:**

- Smithery will show a tool playground on your server page, allowing users to discover and try your MCP online.
- Users can call your server without installing dependencies or be concerned about security.
- Smithery will rank hosted servers higher in our search results.

For developers, we provide an [SDK](https://github.com/smithery-ai/sdk/) to make it easier to deploy servers on Smithery.

> If you already host your MCP elsewhere and just want distribution and observability on Smithery, see [External MCPs (self-hosted)](/build/external).

## Getting Started

**New to building MCPs?** Start with our comprehensive guide:

- **[TypeScript Getting Started Guide](/getting_started/quickstart_build)** - Complete walkthrough for TypeScript developers using the Smithery CLI `dev` and `build` commands

## Resources

- [Deployments](/build/deployments) - Learn about hosting your MCP servers
- [Project Configuration](/build/project-config) - Advanced configuration options
- [Permissions](/build/permissions) - Understanding MCP permissions

Commit message:

update docs for custom containers and add more info on setting PORT (#16)

build/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Build MCPs"
description: "Learn how to build your Model Context Protocol (MCP) server on Smithery."
---

Smithery supports developers building MCPs by providing [CI/CD deployments and hosting](/build/deployments), plus observability tools to monitor your server usage.

**Benefits of hosting:**

- Smithery creates a dedicated page for your server with a playground, allowing users to discover and try your MCP online.
- Users can use your server with any client without installing dependencies or being concerned about security.
- Smithery will rank hosted servers higher in our search results.

## Getting Started

Choose your development approach:

- **[Quick Start (Recommended)](/getting_started/quickstart_build)** - Uses the official MCP TypeScript SDK with Smithery CLI for building and interactively testing your server
- **[Docker Container (Advanced)](/cookbooks/python_custom_container)** - Build MCP servers using Docker containers in any language for maximum flexibility

> If you already host your MCP elsewhere and just want distribution and observability on Smithery, see [External MCPs (self-hosted)](/build/external).
