use/registry.mdx, before:

---
title: "Registry API"
description: "The Smithery Registry API provides a programmatic way to search for MCP servers."
---

The Smithery Registry API provides a programmatic way to search for MCP servers. This documentation will walk you through using the Registry API to obtain a remote MCP server.

## Concepts

Our registry contains an index of MCP servers. Every server may have different ways of launching or connecting to them. Server authors specify a [configuration schema](/build/project-config), which is a JSON schema that defines the structure of the configuration that is required to connect to the server.

## Authentication

All endpoints require authentication via a bearer token. You can create an API key [here](https://smithery.ai/account/api-keys).

Include the following header in your API requests:

```typescript
headers: {
  'Authorization': 'Bearer smithery-api-token'
}
```

## List Servers

```http
GET https://registry.smithery.ai/servers
```

Retrieves a paginated list of all available servers.

#### Query Parameters

- `q` (optional): Search query. We use semantic search, so treat this as a prompt.
- `page` (optional): Page number for pagination (default: 1)
- `pageSize` (optional): Number of items per page (default: 10)

#### Filtering

- **Text Search**: Simply type any text to search semantically (e.g., `machine learning`)
- **Owner Filter**: Use `owner:username` to filter by repository owner (e.g., `owner:smithery-ai`)
- **Repository Filter**: Use `repo:repository-name` to filter by repository name (e.g., `repo:fetch`)
- **Deployment Status**: Use `is:deployed` to show only deployed servers
- **Verification Status**: Use `is:verified` to show only verified servers

You can combine multiple filters together. For example:

```text
owner:mem0ai is:verified memory
```

#### Example Request

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="JavaScript">
    ```javascript
    // JavaScript example using fetch
    const apiKey = 'your-smithery-api-token';
    const query = 'owner:mem0ai is:verified memory';
    const encodedQuery = encodeURIComponent(query);
    
    const response = await fetch(
      `https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q=${encodedQuery}&page=1&pageSize=10`,
      {
        headers: {
          'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`,
          'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
      }
    );
    
    const data = await response.json();
    console.log(data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    # Python example using requests
    import requests
    from urllib.parse import quote
    
    api_key = 'your-smithery-api-token'
    query = 'owner:mem0ai is:verified memory'
    encoded_query = quote(query)
    
    response = requests.get(
        f'https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q={encoded_query}&page=1&pageSize=10',
        headers={
            'Authorization': f'Bearer {api_key}',
            'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
    )
    
    data = response.json()
    print(data)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Using cURL
    curl -X GET "https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q=owner:mem0ai%20is:verified%20memory&page=1&pageSize=10" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer your-smithery-api-token" \
      -H "Accept: application/json"
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Response Type

```typescript
{
    servers: Array<{
      qualifiedName: string;
      displayName: string;
      description: string;
      // Link to Smithery server page
      homepage: string;
      iconUrl: string;
      // Number of times the server has been used via tool calling
      useCount: number;
      // True if this server is deployed on Smithery as a HTTP server
      isDeployed: boolean;
      // True if server is designed to run remotely
      remote: boolean;
      createdAt: string;
    }>;
    pagination: {
      currentPage: number;
      pageSize: number;
      totalPages: number;
      totalCount: number;
    };
  }
```

The response includes basic information about each server and pagination details to help you navigate through the list of servers.

## Get Server

```http
GET https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/{qualifiedName}
```

Retrieves information about a specific server by its qualified name. The qualified name is a unique human-readable identifier for the server. You can find the qualified name from the server page's url: `https://smithery.ai/server/{qualifiedName}`.

#### Example Request

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="JavaScript">
    ```javascript
    // JavaScript example using fetch
    const apiKey = 'your-smithery-api-token';
    const qualifiedName = 'exa';
    
    const response = await fetch(
      `https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/${qualifiedName}`,
      {
        headers: {
          'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`,
          'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
      }
    );
    
    const data = await response.json();
    console.log(data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    # Python example using requests
    import requests
    
    api_key = 'your-smithery-api-token'
    qualified_name = 'exa'
    
    response = requests.get(
        f'https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/{qualified_name}',
        headers={
            'Authorization': f'Bearer {api_key}',
            'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
    )
    
    data = response.json()
    print(data)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Using cURL
    curl -X GET "https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/exa" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer your-smithery-api-token" \
      -H "Accept: application/json"
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Response Type

```typescript
{
    qualifiedName: string;
    displayName: string;
	description: string;
    iconUrl: string | null;
    remote: boolean;
    deploymentUrl: string | null;
    connections: Array<{
      type: string;
      url?: string;
      configSchema: JSONSchema;
    }>;
    security: {
      scanPassed: boolean;
    } | null;
    tools: Array<{
      name: string;
      description: string | null;
      inputSchema: {
        type: "object";
        properties?: object;
      };
      // And potentially other properties of the Tool object
    }> | null;
}
```

The response contains a comprehensive record of the server, including connection details and security information.

### Properties

#### name

**Type**: `string`

Qualified name of the MCP server in the format `owner/repository`.

#### displayName

**Type**: `string`

Human-readable name of the MCP server.

#### iconUrl

**Type**: `string | null`

URL to the server's icon image, or `null` if no icon is available.

#### connections

**Type**: `Array`

Specifies how to connect to this server. Each object in the array represents a different connection method.

| Property       | Type     | Description                                          |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`         | `string` | Connection type. Either `"http"` or `"stdio"`.       |
| `url`          | `string` | HTTP URL to connect to (for `http` type).            |
| `configSchema` | `object` | JSON Schema defining required configuration options. |

#### security

**Type**: `object`

Information about the server's security status.

| Property     | Type                | Description                                                                          |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `scanPassed` | `boolean` \| `null` | Whether the server has passed security checks. `null` if no scan has been performed. |

<Info>
  We use [Invariant](https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/introducing-mcp-scan) to scan for tool poisoning, rug pulls, cross-origin escalations, and prompt injection attacks.
</Info>

#### tools

**Type**: `Array | null`

List of tools that this server provides, or `null` if no tools have been retrieved.

| Property      | Type     | Description                                                |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | `string` | Name of the tool.                                          |
| `description` | `string` | Description of the tool.                                   |
| `inputSchema` | `object` | JSON Schema defining the required parameters for the tool. |

<Note>
  Tool information is cached from the server's last deployment. The actual tools returned by the MCP server at runtime may differ based on configuration or server updates.
</Note>

## Next Step

Once you have retrieved a server and its connection details, you can connect to it using the [Connect to MCPs](/use/connect) guide.

Commit message:

Update connect to MCP with OAuth flow

use/registry.mdx, after:

---
title: "Registry API"
description: "Programmatically search for MCP servers."
---

The Smithery Registry API provides a programmatic way to search for MCP servers hosted and listed in our registry. This documentation will walk you through using the Registry API to obtain metadata about an MCP server.

## Authentication

All registry API endpoints require authentication via a bearer token. You can create an API key [here](https://smithery.ai/account/api-keys).

Include the following header in your API requests:

```typescript
headers: {
  'Authorization': 'Bearer smithery-api-token'
}
```

## List Servers

```http
GET https://registry.smithery.ai/servers
```

Retrieves a paginated list of all available servers.

#### Query Parameters

- `q` (optional): Search query. We use semantic search, so treat this as a prompt.
- `page` (optional): Page number for pagination (default: 1)
- `pageSize` (optional): Number of items per page (default: 10)

#### Filtering

- **Text Search**: Simply type any text to search semantically (e.g., `machine learning`)
- **Owner Filter**: Use `owner:username` to filter by repository owner (e.g., `owner:smithery-ai`)
- **Repository Filter**: Use `repo:repository-name` to filter by repository name (e.g., `repo:fetch`)
- **Deployment Status**: Use `is:deployed` to show only deployed servers
- **Verification Status**: Use `is:verified` to show only verified servers

You can combine multiple filters together. For example:

```text
owner:mem0ai is:verified memory
```

#### Example Request

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="JavaScript">
    ```javascript
    // JavaScript example using fetch
    const apiKey = 'your-smithery-api-token';
    const query = 'owner:mem0ai is:verified memory';
    const encodedQuery = encodeURIComponent(query);
    
    const response = await fetch(
      `https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q=${encodedQuery}&page=1&pageSize=10`,
      {
        headers: {
          'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`,
          'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
      }
    );
    
    const data = await response.json();
    console.log(data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    # Python example using requests
    import requests
    from urllib.parse import quote
    
    api_key = 'your-smithery-api-token'
    query = 'owner:mem0ai is:verified memory'
    encoded_query = quote(query)
    
    response = requests.get(
        f'https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q={encoded_query}&page=1&pageSize=10',
        headers={
            'Authorization': f'Bearer {api_key}',
            'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
    )
    
    data = response.json()
    print(data)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Using cURL
    curl -X GET "https://registry.smithery.ai/servers?q=owner:mem0ai%20is:verified%20memory&page=1&pageSize=10" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer your-smithery-api-token" \
      -H "Accept: application/json"
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Response Type

```typescript
{
    servers: Array<{
      qualifiedName: string;
      displayName: string;
      description: string;
      // Link to Smithery server page
      homepage: string;
      iconUrl: string;
      // Number of times the server has been used via tool calling
      useCount: number;
      // True if this server is deployed on Smithery as a HTTP server
      isDeployed: boolean;
      // True if server is designed to run remotely
      remote: boolean;
      createdAt: string;
    }>;
    pagination: {
      currentPage: number;
      pageSize: number;
      totalPages: number;
      totalCount: number;
    };
  }
```

The response includes basic information about each server and pagination details to help you navigate through the list of servers.

## Get Server

```http
GET https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/{qualifiedName}
```

Retrieves information about a specific server by its qualified name. The qualified name is a unique human-readable identifier for the server. You can find the qualified name from the server page's url: `https://smithery.ai/server/{qualifiedName}`.

#### Example Request

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="JavaScript">
    ```javascript
    // JavaScript example using fetch
    const apiKey = 'your-smithery-api-token';
    const qualifiedName = 'exa';
    
    const response = await fetch(
      `https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/${qualifiedName}`,
      {
        headers: {
          'Authorization': `Bearer ${apiKey}`,
          'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
      }
    );
    
    const data = await response.json();
    console.log(data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    # Python example using requests
    import requests
    
    api_key = 'your-smithery-api-token'
    qualified_name = 'exa'
    
    response = requests.get(
        f'https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/{qualified_name}',
        headers={
            'Authorization': f'Bearer {api_key}',
            'Accept': 'application/json'
        }
    )
    
    data = response.json()
    print(data)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Bash">
    ```bash
    # Using cURL
    curl -X GET "https://registry.smithery.ai/servers/exa" \
      -H "Authorization: Bearer your-smithery-api-token" \
      -H "Accept: application/json"
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Response Type

```typescript
{
    qualifiedName: string;
    displayName: string;
	description: string;
    iconUrl: string | null;
    remote: boolean;
    deploymentUrl: string | null;
    connections: Array<{
      type: string;
      url?: string;
      configSchema: JSONSchema;
    }>;
    security: {
      scanPassed: boolean;
    } | null;
    tools: Array<{
      name: string;
      description: string | null;
      inputSchema: {
        type: "object";
        properties?: object;
      };
      // And potentially other properties of the Tool object
    }> | null;
}
```

The response contains a comprehensive record of the server, including connection details and security information.

### Properties

#### name

**Type**: `string`

Qualified name of the MCP server in the format `owner/repository`.

#### displayName

**Type**: `string`

Human-readable name of the MCP server.

#### iconUrl

**Type**: `string | null`

URL to the server's icon image, or `null` if no icon is available.

#### connections

**Type**: `Array`

Specifies how to connect to this server. Each object in the array represents a different connection method.

| Property       | Type     | Description                                          |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `type`         | `string` | Connection type. Either `"http"` or `"stdio"`.       |
| `url`          | `string` | HTTP URL to connect to (for `http` type).            |
| `configSchema` | `object` | JSON Schema defining required configuration options. |

#### security

**Type**: `object`

Information about the server's security status.

| Property     | Type                | Description                                                                          |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `scanPassed` | `boolean` \| `null` | Whether the server has passed security checks. `null` if no scan has been performed. |

<Info>
  We use [Invariant](https://invariantlabs.ai/blog/introducing-mcp-scan) to scan for tool poisoning, rug pulls, cross-origin escalations, and prompt injection attacks.
</Info>

#### tools

**Type**: `Array | null`

List of tools that this server provides, or `null` if no tools have been retrieved.

| Property      | Type     | Description                                                |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | `string` | Name of the tool.                                          |
| `description` | `string` | Description of the tool.                                   |
| `inputSchema` | `object` | JSON Schema defining the required parameters for the tool. |

<Note>
  Tool information is cached from the server's last deployment. The actual tools returned by the MCP server at runtime may differ based on configuration or server updates.
</Note>

## Next Step

Once you have retrieved a server and its connection details, you can connect to it using the [Connect to MCPs](/use/connect) guide.
