build/deployments/custom-container.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Containers'
description: 'Deploy MCP servers using custom Docker containers with full control over your environment.'
icon: 'container'
---

## When to Use This Approach

Choose Docker containers when you:
- Want to use any programming language (not just TypeScript/JavaScript)
- Need full control over your environment, dependencies, or runtime configuration

For simpler TypeScript/Node.js servers without custom dependencies, consider [TypeScript with Smithery CLI](/build/deployments/typescript) deployment.

## Prerequisites

- Docker installed locally
- Server that implements [MCP Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http) transport with `/mcp` endpoint and CORS configuration
- Server that listens on a configurable `PORT` environment variable (Smithery will set this to 8081 when launching your container)
- **(Optional)** Server that can handle session configuration passed by Smithery (API keys, settings, etc.) - see our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for a complete example

<Note>
**New to custom containers?** See our [Python FastMCP Server cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for a complete working example that demonstrates all the requirements above.
</Note>

## Requirements

Your deployment needs:

- **Dockerfile** - Container configuration file
- **smithery.yaml** - Project and session configuration

Here's what your project structure should look like:

```
my-mcp-server/
  Dockerfile
  smithery.yaml
  pyproject.toml     # Dependencies and project config
  src/
    main.py          # Your MCP server code
  README.md
```

We'll cover how to set up each of these in the sections below.

## Setup

### 1. Create smithery.yaml

The `smithery.yaml` file tells Smithery how to build and run your container, and optionally defines what [session configuration](/build/session-config) your server accepts from users.

Create a `smithery.yaml` file in your repository root:

```yaml
runtime: "container"
build:
  dockerfile: "Dockerfile"           # Path to your Dockerfile
  dockerBuildPath: "."               # Docker build context
startCommand:
  type: "http"
  configSchema:                      # Optional: JSON Schema for configuration
    type: "object"
    properties:
      apiKey:
        type: "string"
        description: "API key for external service"
    required: ["apiKey"]
  exampleConfig:                     # Optional: Example configuration
    apiKey: "your-api-key-here"
```

<Note>
**Need more details?** See [Project Configuration](/build/project-config) for complete smithery.yaml options and [Session Configuration](/build/session-config) for handling user settings.
</Note>

### 2. Create Dockerfile

The Dockerfile defines how to build your container image with all dependencies and runtime configuration. Test it builds locally with `docker build .` before deploying.

Your Dockerfile should:
- Install dependencies and build your application
- Handle the `/mcp` endpoint
- Start your server process

<CodeGroup>

```dockerfile Node.js/TypeScript
FROM node:22-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package*.json ./

# Install dependencies
RUN npm ci

# Copy source code
COPY . .

# Build if needed
RUN npm run build

# Start the server
CMD ["node", "dist/index.js"]
```

```dockerfile Python
FROM python:3.11-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Install uv
COPY --from=ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:latest /uv /bin/uv

# Copy project config
COPY pyproject.toml .

# Install dependencies
RUN uv sync --frozen

# Copy source code
COPY src/ .

# Start the server
CMD ["uv", "run", "python", "main.py"]
```

</CodeGroup>

## Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml` and `Dockerfile`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](https://smithery.ai/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your container

## What Happens Under the Hood

When you deploy, Smithery will:

1. Clone your repository
2. Parse your `smithery.yaml` to understand how to build and configure your server (Dockerfile path, build context, etc.)
3. Build your Docker container using the specified Dockerfile
4. Deploy the container to our hosting infrastructure
5. Send MCP `initialize` and `list_tools` messages with a dummy configuration (via base64-encoded config parameter in URL) to discover your server's capabilities
6. Make it available at `https://server.smithery.ai/your-server/mcp`
7. Handle load balancing, scaling, and monitoring


## Troubleshooting

### Why does my deployment fail?

Common deployment failures and solutions:

- **Docker build fails**: Check your Dockerfile syntax and ensure all files are copied correctly
- **Dependencies not found**: Make sure your package files are copied before installing dependencies

### Why don't my server's capabilities get listed?

If your server's capabilities aren't showing up in Smithery:

- **Port binding issues**: Ensure your server listens on the `PORT` environment variable (Smithery sets this to 8081)
- **CORS errors**: Configure CORS headers properly for the `/mcp` endpoint
- **MCP protocol issues**: Ensure your server properly responds to `initialize` and `list_tools` messages
- **Endpoint not found**: Verify your server exposes the `/mcp` endpoint correctly
- **Configuration errors**: Check that your server handles the base64-encoded config parameter in the URL
- **Server crashes**: Review your server logs for runtime errors during tool discovery

### How do I implement session configuration handling in my server?

To handle user configuration (API keys, settings, etc.):

- **Parse the config parameter**: Extract and decode the base64-encoded config from the URL query parameter
- **Validate configuration**: Check that required fields match your `configSchema` in `smithery.yaml`
- **Handle missing config**: Gracefully handle cases where no configuration is provided
- **See our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container)** for a complete implementation example

### How do I set up CORS handling?

To properly configure CORS for your MCP server:

- **Allow all origins**: Set `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` for the `/mcp` endpoint
- **Allow credentials**: Set `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true`
- **Allow required methods**: Include `GET, POST, OPTIONS` in `Access-Control-Allow-Methods`
- **Allow required headers**: Include `Content-Type, Authorization` and all headers with `*` in `Access-Control-Allow-Headers`
- **Expose MCP headers**: Include `mcp-session-id, mcp-protocol-version` in `Access-Control-Expose-Headers`
- **Handle preflight requests**: Respond to `OPTIONS` requests with appropriate CORS headers
- **Example**: See our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for complete CORS implementation



## Migration Guides

- [Migrating from STDIO to HTTP](/migrations/stdio-to-http)
- [TypeScript Custom Container Migration](/migrations/typescript-custom-container)
- [Python Custom Container Migration](/migrations/python-custom-container)

## Examples

- [Python FastMCP Server with Docker](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) - Complete working example with configuration handling

Commit message:

Remove remaining legacy base64 references

build/deployments/custom-container.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Containers'
description: 'Deploy MCP servers using custom Docker containers with full control over your environment.'
icon: 'container'
---

## When to Use This Approach

Choose Docker containers when you:
- Want to use any programming language (not just TypeScript/JavaScript)
- Need full control over your environment, dependencies, or runtime configuration

For simpler TypeScript/Node.js servers without custom dependencies, consider [TypeScript with Smithery CLI](/build/deployments/typescript) deployment.

## Prerequisites

- Docker installed locally
- Server that implements [MCP Streamable HTTP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26/basic/transports#streamable-http) transport with `/mcp` endpoint and CORS configuration
- Server that listens on a configurable `PORT` environment variable (Smithery will set this to 8081 when launching your container)
- **(Optional)** Server that can handle session configuration passed by Smithery (API keys, settings, etc.) - see our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for a complete example

<Note>
**New to custom containers?** See our [Python FastMCP Server cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for a complete working example that demonstrates all the requirements above.
</Note>

## Requirements

Your deployment needs:

- **Dockerfile** - Container configuration file
- **smithery.yaml** - Project and session configuration

Here's what your project structure should look like:

```
my-mcp-server/
  Dockerfile
  smithery.yaml
  pyproject.toml     # Dependencies and project config
  src/
    main.py          # Your MCP server code
  README.md
```

We'll cover how to set up each of these in the sections below.

## Setup

### 1. Create smithery.yaml

The `smithery.yaml` file tells Smithery how to build and run your container, and optionally defines what [session configuration](/build/session-config) your server accepts from users.

Create a `smithery.yaml` file in your repository root:

```yaml
runtime: "container"
build:
  dockerfile: "Dockerfile"           # Path to your Dockerfile
  dockerBuildPath: "."               # Docker build context
startCommand:
  type: "http"
  configSchema:                      # Optional: JSON Schema for configuration
    type: "object"
    properties:
      apiKey:
        type: "string"
        description: "API key for external service"
    required: ["apiKey"]
  exampleConfig:                     # Optional: Example configuration
    apiKey: "your-api-key-here"
```

<Note>
**Need more details?** See [Project Configuration](/build/project-config) for complete smithery.yaml options and [Session Configuration](/build/session-config) for handling user settings.
</Note>

### 2. Create Dockerfile

The Dockerfile defines how to build your container image with all dependencies and runtime configuration. Test it builds locally with `docker build .` before deploying.

Your Dockerfile should:
- Install dependencies and build your application
- Handle the `/mcp` endpoint
- Start your server process

<CodeGroup>

```dockerfile Node.js/TypeScript
FROM node:22-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package*.json ./

# Install dependencies
RUN npm ci

# Copy source code
COPY . .

# Build if needed
RUN npm run build

# Start the server
CMD ["node", "dist/index.js"]
```

```dockerfile Python
FROM python:3.11-slim

WORKDIR /app

# Install uv
COPY --from=ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:latest /uv /bin/uv

# Copy project config
COPY pyproject.toml .

# Install dependencies
RUN uv sync --frozen

# Copy source code
COPY src/ .

# Start the server
CMD ["uv", "run", "python", "main.py"]
```

</CodeGroup>

## Deploy

1. Push your code (including `smithery.yaml` and `Dockerfile`) to GitHub
2. [Connect your GitHub](https://smithery.ai/new) to Smithery (or claim your server if already listed)
3. Navigate to the Deployments tab on your server page
4. Click Deploy to build and host your container

## What Happens Under the Hood

When you deploy, Smithery will:

1. Clone your repository
2. Parse your `smithery.yaml` to understand how to build and configure your server (Dockerfile path, build context, etc.)
3. Build your Docker container using the specified Dockerfile
4. Deploy the container to our hosting infrastructure
5. Send MCP `initialize` and `list_tools` messages with a dummy [configuration](/build/session-config) to discover your server's capabilities
6. Make it available at `https://server.smithery.ai/your-server/mcp`
7. Handle load balancing, scaling, and monitoring


## Troubleshooting

### Why does my deployment fail?

Common deployment failures and solutions:

- **Docker build fails**: Check your Dockerfile syntax and ensure all files are copied correctly
- **Dependencies not found**: Make sure your package files are copied before installing dependencies

### Why don't my server's capabilities get listed?

If your server's capabilities aren't showing up in Smithery:

- **Port binding issues**: Ensure your server listens on the `PORT` environment variable (Smithery sets this to 8081)
- **CORS errors**: Configure CORS headers properly for the `/mcp` endpoint
- **MCP protocol issues**: Ensure your server properly responds to `initialize` and `list_tools` messages
- **Endpoint not found**: Verify your server exposes the `/mcp` endpoint correctly
- **Server crashes**: Review your server logs for runtime errors during tool discovery

### How do I implement session configuration handling in my server?

To handle user configuration (API keys, settings, etc.):

- **Parse the config parameters**: Read and parse JSON dot-notation query parameters (e.g., `apiKey=...`, `model.name=...`)
- **Validate configuration**: Check that required fields match your `configSchema` in `smithery.yaml`
- **Handle missing config**: Gracefully handle cases where no configuration is provided
- **See our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container)** for a complete implementation example

### How do I set up CORS handling?

To properly configure CORS for your MCP server:

- **Allow all origins**: Set `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *` for the `/mcp` endpoint
- **Allow credentials**: Set `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true`
- **Allow required methods**: Include `GET, POST, OPTIONS` in `Access-Control-Allow-Methods`
- **Allow required headers**: Include `Content-Type, Authorization` and all headers with `*` in `Access-Control-Allow-Headers`
- **Expose MCP headers**: Include `mcp-session-id, mcp-protocol-version` in `Access-Control-Expose-Headers`
- **Handle preflight requests**: Respond to `OPTIONS` requests with appropriate CORS headers
- **Example**: See our [cookbook](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) for complete CORS implementation



## Migration Guides

- [Migrating from STDIO to HTTP](/migrations/stdio-to-http)
- [TypeScript Custom Container Migration](/migrations/typescript-custom-container)
- [Python Custom Container Migration](/migrations/python-custom-container)

## Examples

- [Python FastMCP Server with Docker](/cookbooks/python_custom_container) - Complete working example with configuration handling
